# Survey Purpose and Questionnaire Suggestions

I am writing a brief document to gather my thoughts and insights to help with the survey goals and ideology as well as the challenges and unique opportunities we can uncover.

## Experience Sharing

Most of the traffic management plans are based on the concepts from developed countries which are proven to be effective. I will share some of my experiences and first and will move on to an analysis of those.

1.	**China**: I have experienced traffic jam longer than Dhaka in China in Guangzhou during one of the Canton Fairs (2017). Major difference between Bangladesh and China traffic jam would be the vehicular lanes and the distance between the vehicles. I was stuck in traffic for around 1.5 hours in a cab but my driver was very relaxed. I was the one who was rushing and tensed (the main factor for my rush was financial of course. The cab was relaxed because the meter ensured his time was not wasted)
2.	**Japan**: In Tokyo, almost every household has at least one private car however, these cars are not used in the weekdays. People prefer using the public transport over personal cars. Main reason being the parking fee. It was around 2017 and the parking fee was 2000 yen or 1200 tk per hour and 8000 yen or 4800 tk for 8 hours. Only the C level executives in most companies have office parking space. Furthermore, if you are delayed in traffic, you are heavily criticized in the office environment unless you use public transport in which case, if there is any delay in any service, you are given a ticket which your HR has to consider for considering your timing.
3.	**Singapore**: In Singapore, there is the concept of variable toll on certain roads where if the traffic hits a threshold, for every additional car entering the road, the cars are charged increasing toll.
4.	**New York**: Very similar to Dhaka, barely any difference but people are extremely careful about lane changing and running red lights. Other than that, its quite similar. Also, because all the vehicles have uniform WIDTH, its very difficult to squeeze between lanes. (Not that people don’t try. Personally experienced a Lamborghini doing it in the long beach highway). Additionally the metro should make all Bangladeshis feel proud of our metro. It is so much better than NY. Bus service is quite slow and far between locations so most people tend to drive their personal cars.
5.	**Norway**: Pedestrians have the right of road. This is good for them since their most densely populated city, Oslo is only 7 lakh people and public transport is so good, you would not even want to take your car out. Plus parking is very expensive. 50 NOK for 1 hour (500 tk), 250 NOK for office hours or day parking(2500 tk). Taking a taxi cab is only for the super wealthy as a 15 min ride can cost you around 360 NOK (3600 tk) where as the monthly unlimited transport pass was just 850 NOK (8500 tk) and included bus, tram, metro, train and ferry within that one payment per month. Unlimited use! But because of pedestrians getting the right of road, in central area of Oslo (jernbanetorget) there are intersections where cars may have to wait for longer than in front of bijoy sarani waiting for people to pass by.
6.	**France**: Similar traffic as Dhaka in some areas in Paris, but due to the uniform speed of the vehicles, situation does not escalate much. Touristy areas suffer from heavy pedestrian traffic and long signal waits for cars to cross zebra crossings.
Ok now, let me combine the information:
1.	**Most critical point**: Financial incentive motivates people. China example, if the drive was fixed fare, the cab driver would have been very agitated and would have tried to cut lines to shorten his time wastage. Singapore example, to control vehicles at certain rush hour times, the toll rate for cars is increased to discourage people from taking out their car. Buses are exempt from the toll. In Japan and Norway, additional financial incentive to not take out your car is in the parking fee. In every one of the examples, breaking traffic law has heavy penalties in terms of violation fees and is another form of financial deterrence. Interesting observation: Only traffic penalties are not enough as evidenced by New York and France. To some extent Singapore as well.
2.	**Provide alternative and CONVENIENT transport**: In China, buses are quite frequent but, it is not “great” I know everything is great compared to Dhaka, but in global average it is subpar so people tend to use cabs. Both Japan and Norway has the most amazing public transports I have seen with just 5 – 10 min walk to get to any transport from any area. Max wait times vary but in most of the days I had to wait max of around 10 min and the journey itself was never more than 30 min. So in total around 45-50 min to get to any destination in the cities MAX! In comparison the same distance will take around 1.5 hours by personal car. New York and France again, doesn’t have great public transport and as such the situation was quite similar to Dhaka
3.	**Incentives Matter**: In all of the countries mentioned above, public transport workers are paid monthly wages and the transport company worries about the number of passengers or finances. The drivers are just salaried employees maintaining their schedule. (Literally this happened to me in Norway. I was near Kristiansand waiting on a bus and I was the only passenger at 5pm at night in winter. The bus came over and waited for 10 minutes at the stop even though no one was there. I asked the driver as I was the only passenger and he just said he needs to clock the stand time as part of his KPI.) They don’t need to worry about passengers or making efficient time, they just need to drive well and follow the company policy to get their salaries.


Sorry for the long read, but it is important to figure out how to decide for policy in Bangladesh.

Main goal of the survey should be to focus on the people who are on the road most of the time (All countries with good transport system focuses on the drivers not the passengers). Next, we cannot assume someone will do something just because of the goodness in their heart. We need to find an incentive or a penalty. So what would be an effective incentive or penalty.

Primary focus should be on the lower end population as they have the most to lose or gain. This is where we need to focus and **we are unique because only here are the transport workers part of the INFORMAL ECONOMY**.
Rule of law is a must have discussion but I am not well versed in that aspect as I could not figure out how to make the police want to not take bribe where bribes can be as high as 1000% more than their standard salary.
Technological interventions have a bad habit of assuming ideal world scenarios and most of the modern tech is based on the assumption of **uniform speed in vehicles** so we need to **FOCUS ON how the DIFFERENT SPEEDED vehicles impact our traffic flow**.
Road networks are definitely a must but I think that will have to be discussed with city planners and policy level dialogs
